## The Docker environment for WordPress

## What is this ?
This template repository is a boilerplate setup for a PHP application.

Its current version ships with PHP 8.1, Mysql 8.0, phpMyAdmin and an Nginx server running on Alpine.
All of it orchestrated and run by Docker Compose.

## Requirements
Docker Engine and Docker Compose

## How to use the template ?
Clone this repository, or click the _Use this template_ button on Github.
For more information about Github repositories, please refer to the [Github documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/creating-a-repository-from-a-template).

The entrypoint of your php application will be `/src/public/`.

For more info about this docker env, please refer to the [README.md file provided in the phpdocker directory](/phpdocker/).

## How to use with WordPress ?

The WordPress files can be downloaded on the official website here : https://wordpress.org/download/

Put the WordPress files in `/src/public/`.  

Make a `docker compose up -d` & the docker env will start.

### Link the database

The first thing to do is to create an empty database in your DB manager. Give it a name. 

The next step is to go the file `wp-config.php` (or rename `wp-config-sample.php`) & write the correct info of your DB to be able to link it with WorkPress.  

```php
// ** MySQL settings - You can get this info from your web host ** //
/** The name of the database for WordPress */
define('DB_NAME', 'database_name');

/** MySQL database username */
define( 'DB_USER', 'root' );

/** MySQL database password */
define( 'DB_PASSWORD', 'pass1234' );

/** MySQL hostname */
define( 'DB_HOST', 'mysql' );
```

> 👉 To allow plugins to be installed on Linux, you must write the following line in your `wp-config.php` file : `define('FS_METHOD','direct');`

---

### Notes
The Docker Compose file was _initially_ generated by [phpdocker.io](https://phpdocker.io/).
